That's okay with you.
I'll just leave this.
Here, you're a Bostonian.
It's kind of a homecoming.
Yes, I know this neighborhood very, very well.
I used to sell newspapers, various corners around me.
My brother and I worked on the corner of Wilson and Arlington, a block away from here, on Sunday mornings, from 6 or 7 in the morning until about noon or 1 o'clock when church let out.
And in the winter, it was cold.
It was a very cold job.
We used to rotate.
I would do a couple of hours and he would come and spell me for a couple of hours so I could go get warm and then I would come back and spell him.
I know the area very well.
I love Boston.
I love it a lot.
The weather seems to have been so accommodating for you.
That is wonderful.
Wonderful.
Michael Crichton, who I've interviewed a number of times,
In fact, I was following him around when he did his homecoming in Roslyn, Long Island, a couple of weeks ago.
And one of the kids at the school said, asked him a cliche question about living with celebrities.
And he said, the toughest thing is going out to eat.
Just sitting there.
You're constantly being watched.
Well, I'll tell you, it's an interesting thing.
I don't have anywhere near as much problem these days as I did
In the 70s and 80s.
I'm not really sure why, whether people feel I'm less approachable or whether I'm less recognizable.
I'm not sure which of you.
But there was a time in the 70s and 80s when it was very difficult to go out in public.
When my Star Trek era was extremely intense.
And it was difficult.
It was difficult to have a meal in a public restaurant.
These days, I'm very comfortable in public.
I have no problem.
Are people who normally recognize you, are they my age, generally, or do you find younger people who know you?
I find, I would say, from mid-20s up.
Not the little kids.
The little kids, I think, are watching more of the current show, the next generation show.
But mid-20s up, maybe 30-ish up.
It's impossible to have anticipated anything like this, is it?
No.
No, it was quite shocking, actually.
Quite shocking.
We became a news event in the 70s when the show went into syndication.
Everybody thought we were gone.
The show went into syndication and became this extraordinarily successfully syndicated show.
We were all pleasantly surprised.
Suddenly it was...
It was coming back at us.
We finished the show in the 68.
I thought a couple of years of reruns and we'd be gone.
And it seemed to be heading that way.
And then suddenly around 72, 73, 74, there was this new upsurge of interest.
And it's never stopped since.
Do you have any kind of an explanation for it?
Any kind of insight into the phenomenon?
Interesting.
It's an interesting issue.
I've gone through various
permutations and my reaction to that question.
I think there are a lot of elements.
I don't think there's any one singular element.
I think the audience, in our case, I'm not speaking to The Next Generation or Deep Space Nine or Voyager.
I can't really speak intelligently about that.
But in our case, I think that we had a family chemistry, a family of characters,
that the audience enjoyed revisiting, a group of professional people working together in unison to solve problems.
I think that we were a haven in a way in that the society that we represented still had a clear perception of the difference between right and wrong.
and knew what had to be done, the appropriate thing.
We were not a situational ethics kind of group.
It's such an excellent point, because one thing I always enjoyed about them, and have enjoyed them, and I'm not a trick, but I suspect I've seen them all at some point over the years.
is that there's always a moral point to be made, there's a purpose, and very rarely is there a frivolous, there were a couple of frivolous.
But for the most part, you're right, there was a morality, and the morality was a constant, you could count on it.
It was not a morality that shifted depending on who was in office or what was expedient.
And we were a meritocracy.
The people who did the job were the people who were the appropriate people for the job.
They were qualified to do the job and got the job because they were qualified.
You had a bit of time, by the way, when you think about it.
Yeah.
There was a moral, a social... You had an African-American woman... Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Very good mix.
Yeah, totally acceptable mix of people based on merit, based on talent, the ability to do the job.
Do you think this was inspired?
I mean, was this an inspiration, or was it kind of a hopeful projection of a part of the creative... I think both.
I think both.
I think...
Roddenberry had a very, very wonderful vision.
He himself was a complex, very complex man.
But he had this wonderful idea that where it came from, I'll never know.
The wonderful idea was that humanity would continue to improve, that the moral society would continue to improve, and that
in the 23rd century, the period of Star Trek, that there would be a minimal amount of political influence, of avariciousness, of greed, of racial distrust or animosity.
That was gone.
It was just gone.
It was over.
It was a thing of the past.
And that...
What was left was dealing with circumstances together.
Circumstances could present problems, but individuals in the human society didn't, unless there was some kind of aberration.
I mean, some really interesting or serious aberration.
Something had gone terribly wrong with an individual, not necessarily with a group or a race.
There were other races, like the Klingons, for example, who were a perpetual problem.
Were they evils?
I don't think, yeah, that's an interesting question.
The Klingons, for me, also were complex, extremely paranoid, paranoid.
And the evil sprang from paranoia, and it sprang from this terrible fear.
that they were being misjudged, that they were being, that they were under threat and siege all the time.
They were a siege mentality.
There's somebody always after us.
There's somebody always trying to do us wrong, so we must do what we,
In our civilization, during the Vietnam War, called anticipatory retaliation.
Before they do us injury, which we know they're going to, we will hurt them.
You're talking about an oxymoron?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Anticipatory retaliation, I remember that very well.
Well, I was a Navy press officer in an aircraft carrier.
Yeah, so you know what I'm talking about.
I used to coin these places.
Yeah.
It was the job.
There's almost a mea culpa element in the new book.
Really?
Well, no, no.
I mean, where I am not Spock, but now I am Spock.
Yeah.
Well, you have to have a little sense of humor.
I think that's great.
I guess what really, really genuinely interests me, as one who writes about authors, is this...
I think this has to be the first time in my experience of close to 1,000 interviews over the years where I'm actually talking with a person with a character.
So the character has really, where does one cease being the character?
And if we could just talk and enter this conversation.
I don't think there's any more division between me and the character.
I think it's all gone away, and I think that's why I was comfortable using this title.
I really, it took a long time for me to come to this title.
The other book, the... Intellectually, emotionally?
Emotionally, both.
Both, yeah.
The other title was published in 1975.
It's been 20 years.
The other title was not really a disclaimer, although I must have been going through some kind of a complex process at the time, perhaps unconsciously.
I didn't think of it as a disclaimer book or a rejection book.
I thought it was...
I thought the title was of interest and had some merit because it was a fact.
A simple, real fact.
I was not Spock.
And in a sense, even today, I'm not really, you know.
People recognize me as the actor who played the character.
And I am more Spock-like today than I was when I started out.
Oh, I've become much more rational and much more comfortable with my skin.
Spock as a character that was comfortable in his skin.
And I knew who he was, had a great sense of himself and a great sense of security.
I had to evolve to that.
I was a much more driven, needful, growing person.
I was growing up.
It's been taking a long time growing up.
Actors are that way.
What was the consternation on your part?
I think we're talking 20 years ago.
You were, I guess, in your 40s at that point.
Yeah, yeah.
And, you know, the career still had an arc to it.
There were still questions.
There were still unanswered questions.
How will this affect me?
Will I be okay?
Will I be able to make a living?
During the making of the series, even at the height of the Spock popularity, which was quite intense,
there were people saying to me, what are you going to do when this is over?
And I discerned in there somewhere a concern for me as though I was going to have a problem.
Did you anticipate it at all?
I didn't anticipate it, but I then became conscious of the fact that I shouldn't.
People in effect were saying to me, look out, look out.
Well, it was an interesting process.
When Star Trek was finished,
The first job that I was offered, and I jumped at it, was a job on Mission Impossible.
And I jumped at it because the role that I would be playing was a character who portrayed a lot of other characters.
And I thought, well, now I'll be able to...
pull out the old actor kid bag and go to work and do a lot of other things and maybe deflect some of this very intense spark image.
Were you mindfully trying to shed the air?
Yeah.
In Mission Impossible, I was.
I was.
I don't think it caused a ripple.
I don't think anybody cared.
I was sort of an invisible character.
And what was fascinating about that experience was
But because I was portraying a character named Paris who portrayed other characters in all the charades, Paris didn't exist.
Nobody knew me by Paris.
Paris immediately put on a mask and became another character.
So it was as though I had a good job and I was having a good time doing all these dialects and playing all these characterizations and so forth.
But it had no impact.
And...
After a couple of years of it, I became bored because the characters that Paris portrayed had no inner life.
They were all superficial.
They were charade characters.
And once I had done 25 of them, as I did, or 40 of them, as I did in two seasons, I did two seasons, and then that was enough.
I began to see the same characters coming around again, the same European dictator and the same Asian dictator and the same Cuban dictator, you know, and I thought,
The same blind man or the same crippled man and whatever.
And I thought, that's enough.
I've done that.
I have to believe what nobody anticipated is this word syndication.
Yeah.
I mean, you talk about Mission Impossible.
Now, my kids, they're a bit prominent.
Yeah.
They're vaguely familiar with it.
We'll see something every once in a while.
Yeah.
My younger daughter will say, well, that's mission of a theme, you know.
But there's no ambiguity when it comes to starch.
No, that's right.
And so who would have anticipated that it would even become greater, almost synergistic in a way that, I mean, when you talk, pardon me.
Hi, honey.
This is my wife, Susan.
Pleasure to meet you.
Hi.
You going to join us?
No, no.
Are you going out somewhere?
Anyway, we're back on.
No, there's no ambiguity about Star Trek, you're right.
The mission thing went away.
Anyway, to just close the point, this question of concern about the future, I left Mission Impossible after two seasons.
And I left because I didn't feel that I was, I wasn't being fed anything except making a good living.
And when I left, I then had a year
which demonstrated to me that I could have the kind of actual life that I had fantasized about.
In 1971, after two years on mission, I did in the following order.
I did a Western in Spain with you, Brenner.
I did a tour around the East Coast here, including Beverly and Hyannis and other cities as Tevye and Fiddler on the Roof.
I then went to London and did a two-hour television movie, which was quite successful.
And then from there, I went to the Old Globe Theater in San Diego and played the lead in a man in a glass booth.
So I had a movie, I had a musical, I had a TV movie, and a drama that year.
And I thought I'm a very, very happy camp.
I'm welcome, and...
the movies, I'm welcoming television, I'm welcoming the theater.
And particularly the latter was important to me because I thought I had a lot of exploration to do as an actor on stage, which is how I started acting here on stage in Boston.
So from then on, it was just the process of working my way through
the work that I wanted to do, and finding and making selections.
And I made some mistakes along the way, but by and large it's a great ride.
So to use that phrase again, the iconic of your career, you're satisfied.
Oh yeah, oh yeah, and then some, and then some.
I left here with a dream of making a living as an actor.
I understand your parents were opposed to that.
Oh, oh, oh, that was very painful.
That was a drama.
That was very painful.
My parents were very upset, very upset.
On two accounts.
First, that I wanted to become an actor instead of what they had dreamed would be some kind of a professional career, stable career.
And then that I was leaving at age 18 going 3,000 miles away.
to the West Coast.
That was very bad for them.
With that description on page 210, where this is the scene, it's the final scene where Spock is taking Lee from Kirk.
Yeah.
That, I mean, I respect that you approached it as a professional, but I wonder if you could describe any personal feelings that you might have had.
Tell me which scene you're referring to.
Well, the scene where he's dying.
Oh, oh, yes, yes, yes, okay, okay, Star Trek II, yes, okay.
It was a very stressful day.
I had very mixed feelings about it.
I had agreed, obviously, to do this.
I had one abiding fear about those movies.
And that was that having done a dignified body of work in the television series, my fear was a degradation of that body of work in the movies.
I thought I didn't know really what the level of the work would be, the level of the quality, the level of the lighting.
I was very disappointed with the first movie.
I thought it was a very troubled script.
a script not in touch with itself, a story that was misaligned and misconceived.
The character of Spock was never realized.
I don't think any of the characters would have fully realized in the first movie.
And when they came to us and said they wanted to do another movie, I think I wrote in the book, and it's true, I was very concerned that they're thinking they would get one more bite out of the apple before the whole thing dies.
And I thought, oh, God.
And I was really worried.
But if I didn't do it, I would be perceived as the one naysayer of the group.
The male content.
Yeah, exactly.
And I didn't want that role.
I really didn't want that role.
So I kind of had to come aboard.
When Harv Bennett said to me, how would you like to have a great death scene?
It set up a whole thought process that really, as I today look back on it, it was very interesting.
I thought to myself,
Perhaps this is a, again, I was looking for dignity here somewhere, and I thought maybe this was a dignified way out of this dilemma.
If this could very well be the last movie, why don't we, if I can find, if they can give me some valiant way to go out here with some stature, I'll do that.
I'd rather do that than string along.
worrying each movie.
I'm a worrier in that respect.
I worry about what the script is going to be.
I don't get excited when they're going to make another movie.
I get scared.
What's the script going to be?
That's what I want to know.
What's the story?
What role will we play?
So when he made this comment, a great death scene, well, that's an oxymoron too, isn't it?
How do you have a great death scene where you're dying?
How great can that be?
But in any case, I thought, let's try this.
Let's try this.
And I was quite happy with the way that story was constructed.
And it was a wonderful scene.
It was a very touching scene.
And it had a certain amount of, it had integrity about it.
It had a certain amount of inevitability about it.
And when a scene like that has that inevitability, then you feel, OK, then we're doing the right scene.
It's not arbitrary.
It wasn't arbitrary.
It wasn't, okay, now let's kill it.
So we did it, and it was a very trying day, because by the time we got to playing that scene, it was clear that we were making a pretty good movie.
Now I thought, whoa.
Have I just gotten off a great train ride here?
So how do you resolve that?
There was no way to resolve at the time.
I had to go through with what we had agreed to do, do it as best we could, and wait and see what was going to happen.
And what happened was very interesting.
When the film was tested,
The picture played very well until Spock's death, and then it was a downhill ride after that with the audience.
And the studio became very concerned and said, let's pop in something here that says that this may not be the end.
Yeah, exactly.
So they created a scene.
which was this camera tracking through the foliage and coming to rest on Spock's tube laying there in this leafy glade here.
And the audience said, oh, hello.
Something's in that box, you know, and that's how the resurrection began.
Where is he in your mind now?
Spock?
Yeah.
Well, it's an unsettled issue.
It's an unsettled issue because...
because I did do an appearance as Spock in The Next Generation in a pair of episodes called Reunification, in which Spock was performing ambassadorial duties in the Romulan Empire in the hopes of creating big talk with the Romulans.
And that threat has never been picked up again.
So my assumption is that he's there under deep cover,
uh working with the random people and whether or not that thread will ever be picked up again is i'm dubious about it i don't i don't see it happening but but that's my sense of where where he is physically your feelings about the movies the films as opposed to the television you said you expressed some some
reservations about whether or not this was just some kind of exploiting thing yeah well after star trek two we had a great ride star trek two three and four were all very successful movies and i directed two of them but that's beside the point we had a great ride uh we are you talking commercially or both i think both i think creatively and commercially i think we did some good work bill shatner stumbled on star trek five he had a bad story
I think his directing work was very good, but he had a bad story.
When you're shooting a bad story, there's not much you can do.
Star Trek VI, I think we managed to regain our footing somewhat.
It was not the film that I had hoped it would be, but on the other hand, it was not one of our worst.
It was okay.
It was kind of a potboiler, political thriller.
But I was hoping for something else.
We were dealing with the Klingons, and I was hoping for some really interesting insight into what made the Klingons really sick, and we didn't get that.
We didn't achieve that.
What's your sense of the audience seeing the characters age in our films?
I think they stayed with it.
I think they stayed with it because we were not trying to be physical heroes.
We were trying, we were still doing a professional piece of work.
I think we pulled that off okay.
I was not comfortable watching the Generations movie, Structural 7.
I was not comfortable watching it.
I rejected the role that they offered me in it.
I rejected the
the job of directing it.
I didn't like the script.
I didn't like the movie.
Why is that conceptually?
Well, conceptually, I just thought it was a bad story, but I certainly, watching it, was not comfortable watching William Shatner as Captain Kirk and Patrick Stewart as Jean-Luc Picard, two guys quite mature, to say the least, in a fist fight with Malcolm McDowell.
I wasn't interested in seeing that at all.
Not at all.
And I went off the audience for it.
It doesn't matter to me.
I wasn't interested.
I wasn't comfortable watching it.
I thought, why are we doing this?
Well, who cares about this fist fight?
Isn't there something more interesting that Star Trek can deliver than a fist fight between these three
At least middle-aged gentleman, you know, I thought it was cheap.
You mentioned Stuart.
I noticed that he took a stage role where he plays a gay friend, I guess.
Yeah, a movie role.
Was it a movie role?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I guess he mindfully there was trying to...
There are other tricks in my bag.
He makes no bones about it.
He's a very accomplished actor.
I saw him put it in a newspaper article recently saying that he's choosing roles that would get him as far away from Captain Jones-Luc Picard as possible.
Makes no bones about it.
And I understand.
You respect that.
Yeah, sure.
Talk, if you might, a little bit about what is suggested as a sibling rivalry between yourself and Shatner.
We're very close friends these days.
We're very close friends.
We see each other regularly.
We see each other on average of once or twice a month for dinner and what have you.
I admire Bill's energy and his passion.
He has a great passion for life and for work.
and for creativity.
Very, very energetic, passionate guy.
Yes, we had rivalry.
But I have written and said constantly for the last 30 years that his energy was vital to the show.
His physical energy, his emotional energy was vital to the show.
He came to work each day pouring out creative energy.
And that creative energy that he poured out and that style of play that he brought to the show
was vital for my function, because my function was a reacting function.
And if he didn't play what he did, there would be nothing for me as Spock to react to.
When you think about it, of course, the television series is about three years, I think, right?
Yeah.
But the team basically stayed together.
When you think of so many other successful...
television series where one individual will start to develop a degree of celebrity.
Leave the series and they do something to... No, we were right.
No, we hung together pretty tight.
But even beyond the television series into the film series.
Into the films, yes, exactly.
What was your reaction to The Next Generation?
I was very pleasantly surprised at their success.
There was a certain amount of ego involved when it was announced that there would be a next generation show with an entirely new cast.
And some of that ego said to me, is it possible that some other group of actors could find their place in the sun and displace or at the very least share the spotlight with us and maintain without us an audience?
And they certainly did.
They certainly did.
They were extremely successful.
Did they have a platform from which to take off that we had established, the platform that we had established?
Yes.
But nevertheless, they called out their own identity and did it very well.
I think the Smithsonian, doesn't the Smithsonian have an enterprise?
They have had a Star Trek display there for many, many years.
Okay, so you're talking about a cultural artifact.
Yeah.
And a cultural impact.
I'm still awed by the fact that we are in a culture as deep as we are.
Most any day of the week you can pick up newspapers and see references to Where No Man Has Gone Before, The Final Frontier, Be Me Up Scotty, Live Long and Prosper.
all of those references to Star Trek are in the language and in the culture.
I know it's in the book, but talk to me about your invention of that.
Well, it was a serendipitous moment.
I'm an actor who, I taught acting classes, and I taught actors that if you are, the character that the author has written,
It has been said is stuck with the actor who portrays him and the character Hopefully looks forward to the actor to bring some life and some and some texture and some dimensionality to this portrayal so the actor must arrive each day with some
some gift to this character.
You cannot simply arrive and read the words that are on the page.
You've got to find more than that.
You've got to flesh this character out.
On that day, when we were about to shoot this sequence, I was on my game and I'm saying to myself, look, we are going to Vulcan for the first time.
We're going to see other Vulcans for the first time.
This is an important day for Spock.
This is an important day for the character and an important day for Star Trek.
And I was thrilled when I saw the casting of this lady, Sue Wielowski, playing Chapau.
And the director at stage was this wonderfully interesting ritualistic ceremonial arrival of the wedding party.
And they carried her in on a sedan chair.
And there's this guy shaking this tambourine thing, you know, with a lot of ritual and a lot of interesting sounds going on.
And I thought, this is good.
This is good.
It was a wonderful script.
I'm fine, thank you.
It was a wonderful script which pleased me knowing, a script by Theodore Sturgeon.
Very intelligent, very tasteful, poetic script.
And I thought, let's look for opportunities here to develop this Vulcan culture.
And I said, as I looked, I said to the director, wouldn't it be wonderful if we had some special thing that Vulcans do when they greet?
Humans shake hands or military people salute each other.
Asians bow to each other.
Eskimos rub noses of what they do.
Indians have some kind of a hand gesture.
What do Vulcans do?
And then I've come up with this idea that came from my childhood.
from that magic moment in the synagogue when the Kohanim blessed the congregation.
The blessing is from the Old and New Testament, may the Lord bless you and keep you, may the Lord have his countenance to shine upon you, may the Lord turn his face unto you and grant you peace, and so forth.
But I remembered this very exciting, dramatic event in the synagogue.
And it was dramatic, I learned much later,
The drama is created, the drama came from the fact that the whole congregation bows their head and looks away and does not look at these gentlemen.
I peeked because I was so curious and I saw them doing this.
And the congregation does that because when they are doing that prayer and doing that incantation of that prayer, and the way they did it was a keening, wailing kind of sound, they are invoking God's presence.
And the essence of God is said to enter the sanctuary during that prayer.
And man, humankind, must not see the essence of God.
It's too awesome and too powerful.
You could die if you saw this.
It's heavy stuff.
Yeah, heavy stuff, exactly.
And I sensed that magic as a kid.
It was a great theatricality of that.
And I became fascinated with this gesture.
So I learned it.
And it seemed interesting and useful on this day.
Was it improvised?
I guess the question does go to whether or not there was improvisation.
as the jazz people say, and the characters?
No, it wasn't spontaneous, and it wasn't something that I just did during the scene.
No, it was discussed and prepared, but minimally.
I said to the director, I'd like to do something here, and he said, what do you have in mind?
And I said, how about this?
And he said, okay.
Is there a trick to doing it, by the way?
Years of diligent practice.
If I were to put it in the story, how it's done, what would you say?
How is it done?
How do you do the...
Well, I have a certain amount of dexterity, I guess.
Not everybody can do that, but I'm not sure.
It's a spread of the fingers.
The thumb is outstretched to one side, to right or left, depending on which hand we're talking about.
In this case, it's the right hand, so the thumb is outspread towards my left, and then the next two fingers, and then a space, and then the final two fingers.
So you have a three-pronged sort of pitchfork look.
And there's another explanation for this.
This is the shape, this three-pronged look is the shape of the letter Shin in the Hebrew alphabet.
The letter Shin is the first letter in the word Shaddai, Hebrew word Shaddai.
Shaddai is the name of the Almighty.
So there's this legend that the Kohanim are using
a symbol of the Almighty's name when they bless the congregation.
There's also tabulistic references to this shape.
numerological Kabbalistic references which are very mysterious and I don't know a lot about.
So there's no trick to it.
It's just something that... It's an acquired talent.
If you put that thumb out, how do you bring that... It's an acquired talent.
Years of diligent practice and I've learned to do that.
We've got about 15 minutes.
Tell me about, it must have been a special role working with your son,
It was.
My son has gone through a difficult process.
For a long time, he was working very hard at doing anything that I did not do.
Understandably.
Yes, of course.
Trying desperately to identify himself separately from me.
And he chose the law as a path to accomplish that.
because I had nothing to do with the law.
He never was really attracted to it, never was in love with it, and was always troubled by what he discovered when practicing it.
And that was that he simply didn't like what he had to do, which was, he found it rather venal, he found it rather undignified and unpleasant.
The work was on maybe doing contract law in our business,
particularly in the music business, and he just didn't like it.
He didn't like himself, and he didn't like the people he was working with.
And gradually, unbeknownst to me, he started taking classes in writing, directing, and acting.
I think he wanted to test the order before he made some announcement to me, Dad, I'm going to do this.
I think he wanted to find out for himself who he was in that territory.
And gradually, finding that he was having, that he was finding some joy in his life, he began to reveal to me that he was doing this, and he began to extricate himself from a law career.
And I introduced him to visiting sets.
I had him on Star Trek VI, of which I was producing.
I had him on Star Trek 6 in the lowliest of jobs, running errands and being what is known in our business as a gopher.
Go for this and go for that.
First at no salary and then at a minimal, a few hundred bucks a week.
Minimal salary.
He did that.
Then he did at no salary.
Spent a lot of time on the next generation set, studying the process, learning the process, paying his dues, accumulating information.
And after several months or close to a year, they gave him his first directing assignment.
And then they gave him a second one.
And then they sent him out on his own.
And he went out and made a short film.
He struggled.
He put it together with little or no money, looking for a lot of favors, wrote and directed a 25-minute film, learned still more about what goes into the process.
And then finally, one day, we were having this conversation about
his efforts, and we talked about the fact that Outer Limits was now on the air again.
It was a series that had been on the air in the 50s, 60s.
And I had worked in it in an episode called I, Robot, a short story, a classic science fiction short story about a robot that's put on top of a murder.
And I said, why don't we suggest to Showtime that we'll do this together.
You direct and I'll act in it.
And he did.
He carried the ball and went to them and presented the idea, pursued it with them, and eventually we did it.
There was trepidation for me.
Going to Canada, which is where we were shooting things in Vancouver, I thought to myself, if he's not on his game, I'm in trouble here.
I'm in trouble as an actor and I'm in trouble as a father.
I hope that we won't come to a moment or a day where he turns to me and says, I don't know what I'm doing.
What should I do here or there?
It never happened, on the contrary.
He was absolutely a top-notch professional.
It was very exciting to see him work.
Oh, it was great.
It was great.
And to see everybody else responding to his direction because he was definitely there in every respect.
His craftsmanship was there.
His sense of the interior life of the piece was there in great force.
He was wonderful.
And I was able to relax and enjoy myself as an actor and just watch this good director doing his job.
And since then, he has had a flurry of activity.
He directed an episode of Babylon 5.
He's just been asked to do three more in the coming months.
He is now prepping and he starts shooting, I think, next Monday or Tuesday on NYPD Blue, which is a very prestigious assignment for him.
And he has an episode of another TV show called, I think it's called Sliders, a new series that I'm not familiar with.
He's coming, he goes to work on that in February.
So he has his calendar filling up with work.
He's a great show.
And what's on your plate for the future?
Well, for a guy who considers himself pretty much having done the job, I find myself more busy than I want to be.
I'm right now co-executive producing a television series that's on the air currently called Deadly Games, doing marginally well.
I wish it were doing better.
It's on the United Paramount Network, which is a tough place to be.
It's a strange kind of almost network, really.
So I'm doing that.
I'm working on a novel, my first science fiction novel.
I think I have an exciting idea for a central character that I want to pursue.
And I have a comic book, which I'm delighted with.
It's called Primordials.
It's been on the stand for about a year.
And one of the books has just picked it up to do a hardcover novel version of it next year.
Yeah, so it goes on.
It goes on.
There is life after spark.
Yeah.
I compare myself to a cruise ship that's been cruising along out in the ocean for a number of years.
Even when you pull the throttle back to full stop, it doesn't stop.
It has some momentum.
It keeps going for a while, and that's the way I feel.
I'm not trying to create projects for myself, but there is momentum as a result of all the years of work, I guess.
That's great.
Do you know Bill Self?
I know the name.
He was head of one of the studios for a while.
Yeah, yeah, he's in my book.
That's why I always spend some time out there.
I don't know him personally.
I did a book on bibliomania, the book of madness.
So it's pretty good.
It's in its third printing.
Yeah, great.
If you'd like, if you give me the address of your office or something, I'll be happy to send you this.
Yeah, please, please.
501 South Beverly Drive.
Okay.
Beverly Hills, California.
90212.
Do you know Louise Taper?
The Taper's in Beverly Hills?
No.
She's the big Lincoln collector.
She had a huge exhibition at the Lincoln Library.
See, she's in California.
Maybe I'll send you a copy of the book if you're interested in doing that.
Great.
I'd love to see it.
Well, we have to wrap it up.
I'll have you to describe a couple of books for me.
Would you kindly do that?